h1. Object-to-VBO

Copyright (c) 2012 Kyle Paulsen. All Rights Reserved.
Licensed under the MIT license (http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php)

h2. What is it?

This is a Wavefront Object converter. It is aimed at converting simple objects into a very efficient format. As such, this is geared more towards making games rather than support all Wavefront object features. So far it only supports the essentials: vertices, vertex normals, 2D texture coords and triangular faces. It will ignore all other features and will probably break if your object has faces with more than 3 vertices. But in the end, the VBO file format will allow you to read the file quickly, byte by byte, to build an interlaced float buffer immediately. 

h2. The format

The VBO format is a simple byte-by-byte format. The first line in the file are the headers. Header data consists of a character to denote what the following 4 byte integer is for. The header ends with a end-line character. The header characters are:

* s: For stride, the following integer denotes how many floats are in one vertex stride.
* v: For vertices, the following integer denotes how many vertices (and strides) to expect in the file.
* n: For Normal Floats, the following integer will be 3 if there are vertex normals, otherwise 0.
* t: For Texture Coord Floats, the following integer will be 2 if there are texture coords, otherwise 0.

The Header ends with a newline character (\n).
Then the remaining contents of the file are s*v*4 (strides * vertices * 4) bytes that when read 4 at a time become your float data. All you need to do is put these floats directly in a float buffer, set up the stride, transfer it to the video card, and then call drawArrays.
The order of data in a stride will be VVVNNNTT where Vs are vertex floats, Ns are Normal floats, and Ts are texture floats. If the object file doesnt contain normals or texture coordinates then the data order is the same but just skipping over what isn't present.

h2. Jar Usage:

* java -jar Obj2VBO.jar input.obj output.vbo
* Remember that this only supports vertices, normals, texture coords, and *triangular faces*.